<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="../../../src/schema/epub-xhtml-30.rnc" type="compact"?>
<?oxygen SCHSchema="../../../src/schema/epub-xhtml-30.sch"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
    <head>
        <title>Forms 001</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <nav>
            <ul>
                <li>
                    <a href="/">Home</a>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <a href="/news">News</a>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <a>Examples</a>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <a href="/legal">Legal</a>
                </li>
            </ul>
        </nav>
        <aside class="advertising">
            <h1>Advertising</h1>
            <a href="http://ad.example.com/?adid=1929&amp;pubid=1422">
                <section>
                    <h1>Mellblomatic 9000!</h1>
                    <p>Turn all your widgets into mellbloms!</p>
                    <p>Only $9.99 plus shipping and handling.</p>
                </section>
            </a>
            <a href="http://ad.example.com/?adid=375&amp;pubid=1422">
                <section>
                    <h1>The Mellblom Browser</h1>
                    <p>Web browsing at the speed of light.</p>
                    <p>No other browser goes faster!</p>
                </section>
            </a>
        </aside>
        <p><em>Cats are <em>cute</em> animals!</em></p>
        <p><strong>Warning.</strong> This dungeon is dangerous. <strong>Avoid the ducks.</strong>
            Take any gold you find. <strong><strong>Do not take any of the diamonds</strong>, they
                are explosive and <strong>will destroy anything within ten meters.</strong></strong>
            You have been warned.</p>
        <dl>
            <dt>Single room</dt>
            <dd>199 € <small>breakfast included, VAT not included</small></dd>
            <dt>Double room</dt>
            <dd>239 € <small>breakfast included, VAT not included</small></dd>
        </dl>
        <p><s>Recommended retail price: $3.99 per bottle</s></p>
        <p>My favorite book is <cite>The Reality Dysfunction</cite> by Peter F. Hamilton. My
            favorite comic is <cite>Pearls Before Swine</cite> by Stephan Pastis. My favorite track
            is <cite>Jive Samba</cite> by the Cannonball Adderley Sextet.</p>
        <p>The man said <q>Things that are impossible just take longer</q>. I disagreed with
            him.</p>
        <p>The W3C page <cite>About W3C</cite> says the W3C's mission is <q
                cite="http://www.w3.org/Consortium/">To lead the World Wide Web to its full
                potential by developing protocols and guidelines that ensure long-term growth for
                the Web</q>. I disagree with this mission.</p>
        <p>The <dfn><abbr title="Garage Door Opener">GDO</abbr></dfn> is a device that allows
            off-world teams to open the iris.</p>
        <!-- ... later in the document: -->
        <p>Teal'c activated his <abbr title="Garage Door Opener">GDO</abbr> and so Hammond ordered
            the iris to be opened.</p>
        <p>The <dfn id="gdo"><abbr title="Garage Door Opener">GDO</abbr></dfn> is a device that
            allows off-world teams to open the iris.</p>
        <!-- ... later in the document: -->
        <p>Teal'c activated his <a href="#gdo"><abbr title="Garage Door Opener">GDO</abbr></a> and
            so Hammond ordered the iris to be opened.</p>
        <p>The <dfn id="whatwg"><abbr title="Web Hypertext Application Technology Working Group"
                    >WHATWG</abbr></dfn> is a loose unofficial collaboration of Web browser
            manufacturers and interested parties who wish to develop new technologies designed to
            allow authors to write and deploy Applications over the World Wide Web.</p>
        <p>The <dfn id="whatwg2">Web Hypertext Application Technology Working Group</dfn> (<abbr
                title="Web Hypertext Application Technology Working Group">WHATWG</abbr>) is a loose
            unofficial collaboration of Web browser manufacturers and interested parties who wish to
            develop new technologies designed to allow authors to write and deploy Applications over
            the World Wide Web.</p>
        <p>The <abbr title="Web Hypertext Application Technology Working Group">WHATWG</abbr>
            started working on HTML5 in 2004.</p>
        <p>Two <abbr title="Working Group">WG</abbr>s worked on this specification: the
                <abbr>WHATWG</abbr> and the <abbr>HTMLWG</abbr>.</p>
        <div class="vevent">
            <a class="url" href="http://www.web2con.com/">http://www.web2con.com/</a>
            <span class="summary">Web 2.0 Conference</span>: <time class="dtstart"
                datetime="2007-10-05">October 5</time> - <time class="dtend" datetime="2007-10-20"
                >19</time>, at the <span class="location">Argent Hotel, San Francisco, CA</span>
        </div>
        <p>I usually have a snack at <time>16:00</time>.</p>
        <article>
            <h1>Small tasks</h1>
            <footer>Published <time pubdate="" datetime="2009-08-30">today</time>.</footer>
            <p>I put a bike bell on his bike.</p>
        </article>
        <article>
            <h1>Small tasks</h1>
            <footer>Published <time pubdate="" datetime="2009-08-30T07:13Z"></time>.</footer>
            <p>I put a bike bell on his bike.</p>
        </article>
        <p>The <code>code</code> element represents a fragment of computer code.</p>
        <p>When you call the <code>activate()</code> method on the <code>robotSnowman</code> object,
            the eyes glow.</p>
        <p>The example below uses the <code>begin</code> keyword to indicate the start of a
            statement block. It is paired with an <code>end</code> keyword, which is followed by the
                <code>.</code> punctuation character (full stop) to indicate the end of the
            program.</p>
        <pre><code class="language-pascal">var i: Integer;
begin
   i := 1;
   end.</code></pre>
        <p>If there are <var>n</var> pipes leading to the ice cream factory then I expect at
                <em>least</em>
            <var>n</var> flavors of ice cream to be available for purchase!</p>
        <pre><samp><span class="prompt">jdoe@mowmow:~$</span> <kbd>ssh demo.example.com</kbd>
Last login: Tue Apr 12 09:10:17 2005 from mowmow.example.com on pts/1
Linux demo 2.6.10-grsec+gg3+e+fhs6b+nfs+gr0501+++p3+c4a+gr2b-reslog-v6.189 #1 SMP Tue Feb 1 11:22:36 PST 2005 i686 unknown

<span class="prompt">jdoe@demo:~$</span> <span class="cursor">_</span></samp></pre>
        <p>To make George eat an apple, select <kbd><kbd><samp>File</samp></kbd>|<kbd><samp>Eat
                        Apple...</samp></kbd></kbd>
        </p>
        <p>The coordinate of the <var>i</var>th point is (<var>x<sub><var>i</var></sub></var>,
                        <var>y<sub><var>i</var></sub></var>). For example, the 10th point has
            coordinate (<var>x<sub>10</sub></var>, <var>y<sub>10</sub></var>).</p>
        <var>E</var>=<var>m</var><var>c</var><sup>2</sup> f(<var>x</var>, <var>n</var>) =
            log<sub>4</sub><var>x</var><sup><var>n</var></sup>
        <p>Raymond tried to sleep.</p>
        <p><i>The ship sailed away on Thursday</i>, he dreamt. <i>The ship had many people aboard,
                including a beautiful princess called Carey. He watched her, day-in, day-out, hoping
                she would notice him, but she never did.</i></p>
        <p><i>Finally one night he picked up the courage to speak with her—</i></p>
        <p>Raymond woke with a start as the fire alarm rang out.</p>
        <p>You enter a small room. Your <b>sword</b> glows brighter. A <b>rat</b> scurries past the
            corner wall.</p>
        <p lang="en-US">Consider the following quote:</p>
        <blockquote lang="en-GB">
            <p>Look around and you will find, no-one's really <mark>colour</mark> blind.</p>
        </blockquote>
        <p lang="en-US">As we can tell from the <em>spelling</em> of the word, the person writing
            this quote is clearly not American.</p>
        <article>
            <style scoped="scoped">
                blockquote mark,
                q mark {
                    font : inherit;
                    font-style : italic;
                    text-decoration : none;
                    background : transparent;
                    color : inherit;
                }
                .bubble em {
                    font : inherit;
                    font-size : larger;
                    text-decoration : underline;
                }</style>
            <h1>She knew</h1>
            <p>Did you notice the subtle joke in the joke on panel 4?</p>
            <blockquote>
                <p class="bubble">I didn't <em>want</em> to believe. <mark>Of course on some level I
                        realized it was a known-plaintext attack.</mark> But I couldn't admit it
                    until I saw for myself.</p>
            </blockquote>
            <p>(Emphasis mine.) I thought that was great. It's so pedantic, yet it explains
                everything neatly.</p>
        </article>
        <ul>
            <li>User <bdi>jcranmer</bdi>: 12 posts.</li>
            <li>User <bdi>hober</bdi>: 5 posts.</li>
            <li>User <bdi>إيان</bdi>: 3 posts.</li>
        </ul>
        
        <pre><code class="lang-c"><span class="keyword">for</span> (<span class="ident">j</span> = 0; <span class="ident">j</span> &lt; 256; <span class="ident">j</span>++) {
  <span class="ident">i_t3</span> = (<span class="ident">i_t3</span> &amp; 0x1ffff) | (<span class="ident">j</span> &lt;&lt; 17);
  <span class="ident">i_t6</span> = (((((((<span class="ident">i_t3</span> >> 3) ^ <span class="ident">i_t3</span>) >> 1) ^ <span class="ident">i_t3</span>) >> 8) ^ <span class="ident">i_t3</span>) >> 5) &amp; 0xff;
  <span class="keyword">if</span> (<span class="ident">i_t6</span> == <span class="ident">i_t1</span>)
    <span class="keyword">break</span>;
    }</code></pre>
        
        <p><a>34 comments.</a><br/>
            <a>Add a comment.</a></p>
        <p><label>Name: <input name="name"/></label><br/>
            <label>Address: <input name="address"/></label></p>
        
        <p>So then he pointed at the tiger and screamed
            "there<wbr/>is<wbr/>no<wbr/>way<wbr/>you<wbr/>are<wbr/>ever<wbr/>going<wbr/>to<wbr/>catch<wbr/>me"!</p>
        
    </body>
</html>
