<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8" />
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/shared-culture.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <section class="base">
            <h2>to save the world from failed sharing</h2>
            <p>Creative Commons is designed to save the world from failed sharing. People who
                actually want to share stuff, who put it up on the web because they want to share it
                under certain terms.</p>
            
            <video id="video1" autoplay="" role="button" aria-controls="video1" controls="">
                <source src="../video/shared-culture.mp4" type="video/mp4"/>
                <source src="../video/shared-culture.webm" type="video/webm"/>
                <track src="../captions/cc-en.vtt" srclang="en" kind="subtitles" label="English"/>
                <track src="../captions/cc-fr.vtt" srclang="fr" kind="subtitles" label="Français"/>                
                <div class="errmsg">
                    <p>Your Reading System does not support (this) video.</p>
                    <pre><code>
&lt;video id="video1"autoplay="" role="button" aria-controls="video1" controls=""&gt;
    &lt;source src="../video/shared-culture.mp4" type="video/mp4"&gt;&lt;/source&gt;
    &lt;source src="../video/shared-culture.webm" type="video/webm"&gt;&lt;/source&gt;
    &lt;track src="../captions/cc-en.vtt" srclang="en" kind="subtitles" label="English"&gt;&lt;/track&gt;
    &lt;track src="../captions/cc-fr.vtt" srclang="fr" kind="subtitles" label="Français"&gt;&lt;/track&gt;
&lt;/video&gt;
                    </code></pre>
                </div>
            </video>
            
            <p>So we wanted to create a simple way, for creators to say to the world here's the
                freedom that I want to run with my creative work. Here are the things you're allowed
                to do. Can I reproduce it, can I copy it, can I put it in my text book? Can I use
                that photograph? Can I make a new version of it? Creative Commons gives tools to
                creators to make a choice about copyright.</p>
        </section>        
    </body>
</html>
