<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
 <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"><head><meta charset="utf-8"/><title>EPUB 3 Changes from EPUB 2.0.1</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/epub-spec.css"/></head><body><h1 class="title">EPUB 3 Changes from EPUB 2.0.1</h1><p class="identity"><span class="releaseinfo">Recommended Specification</span> <span class="pubdate">11 October 2011</span></p><dl class="printhistory"><dt>This version</dt><dd><a href="http://www.idpf.org/epub/30/spec/epub30-changes-20111011.html">http://www.idpf.org/epub/30/spec/epub30-changes-20111011.html</a></dd><dt>Latest version</dt><dd><a href="http://www.idpf.org/epub/30/spec/epub30-changes.html">http://www.idpf.org/epub/30/spec/epub30-changes.html</a></dd><dt>Previous version</dt><dd><a href="http://www.idpf.org/epub/30/spec/epub30-changes-20110908.html">http://www.idpf.org/epub/30/spec/epub30-changes-20110908.html</a></dd></dl><p class="diff"> A diff of changes from the previous draft is available at <a href="http://code.google.com/p/epub-revision/source/diff?spec=svn3218&amp;old=3183&amp;r=3218&amp;format=side&amp;path=%2Ftrunk%2Fsrc%2Fspec%2Fepub30-changes.xml">this link</a>. </p><div class="legal"><p class="copyright">Copyright © 2010, 2011 International Digital Publishing Forum™</p><div class="legalnotice" title="Legal Notice"><a id="d7454e37"/><p>All rights reserved. This work is protected under Title 17 of the United States Code. Reproduction and dissemination of this work with changes is prohibited except with the written permission of the <a href="http://www.idpf.org">International Digital Publishing Forum (IDPF)</a>. </p><p>EPUB is a registered trademark of the International Digital Publishing Forum.</p></div></div><div class="authorgroup"><p class="bridgehead">Editors</p><p class="editor">William McCoy, International Digital Publishing Forum (IDPF) </p><p class="editor">Markus Gylling, DAISY Consortium </p></div><nav class="toc" id="toc"><p><strong>Table of Contents</strong></p><ol><li><a href="#sec-introduction">1. Introduction</a></li><li><ol><li><a href="#sec-diff-intro-history">1.1. EPUB Revision History</a></li></ol></li><li><a href="#sec-history">2. Changes to EPUB Specification Documents</a></li><li><ol><li><a href="#sec-history-intro">2.1. Changes in Document Organization </a></li><li><a href="#sec-terminology-changes">2.2. Changes in Terminology </a></li></ol></li><li><a href="#sec-new-changed">3. New and Changed Functionality in EPUB 3</a></li><li><ol><li><a href="#sec-new-changed-cd">3.1. Content Documents</a></li><li><ol><li><a href="#sec-new-changed-xhtml5">3.1.1. HTML5</a></li><li><a href="#sec-new-changed-svg">3.1.2. SVG</a></li><li><a href="#sec-new-changed-mathml">3.1.3. MathML</a></li><li><a href="#sec-new-changed-semantic-inflection">3.1.4. Semantic Inflection</a></li><li><a href="#sec-new-changed-switch">3.1.5. Content Switching</a></li></ol></li><li><a href="#sec-new-changed-nav">3.2. Navigation</a></li><li><a href="#sec-new-changed-linking">3.3. Linking</a></li><li><a href="#sec-new-changed-scrp">3.4. Scripting and Interactivity</a></li><li><ol><li><a href="#sec-new-changed-scripting">3.4.1. Scripting</a></li><li><a href="#sec-new-changed-trigger">3.4.2. Triggers</a></li><li><a href="#sec-new-changed-bindings">3.4.3. Bindings</a></li></ol></li><li><a href="#sec-new-changed-styling">3.5. Styling and Layout</a></li><li><ol><li><a href="#sec-new-changed-css">3.5.1. CSS</a></li><li><a href="#sec-new-changed-embedded-fonts">3.5.2. Embedded Fonts</a></li><li><a href="#sec-new-changed-ocf-obf">3.5.3. Font Obfuscation</a></li></ol></li><li><a href="#sec-new-changed-media">3.6. Rich Media</a></li><li><ol><li><a href="#sec-new-changed-audio-video">3.6.1. Audio and Video</a></li><li><a href="#sec-new-changed-mo">3.6.2. Media Overlays</a></li></ol></li><li><a href="#sec-new-changed-meta">3.7. Metadata</a></li><li><ol><li><a href="#sec-new-changed-meta-package">3.7.1. Publication Metadata and Identity</a></li><li><a href="#sec-new-changed-meta-resources">3.7.2. Resource Metadata</a></li></ol></li><li><a href="#sec-new-changed-speech">3.8. Speech</a></li><li><a href="#sec-new-changed-package">3.9. Manifest Fallbacks</a></li><li><a href="#sec-new-changed-ocf">3.10. Containment</a></li><li><ol><li><a href="#sec-new-changed-remote">3.10.1. Remote Resources</a></li><li><a href="#sec-new-changed-ocf-white-space">3.10.2. Whitespace in MIMETYPE file</a></li><li><a href="#sec-new-changed-ocf-namechars">3.10.3. Disallowed characters in OCF file names</a></li></ol></li><li><a href="#sec-new-changed-xml-unicode">3.11. XML and Unicode</a></li></ol></li><li><a href="#sec-replaced">4. EPUB 2.0.1 Features Replaced in EPUB 3</a></li><li><ol><li><a href="#sec-removals">4.1. Features Removed from EPUB 3</a></li><li><ol><li><a href="#sec-removals-dtbook">4.1.1. DTBook</a></li><li><a href="#sec-removals-out-of-line-XML-islands">4.1.2. Out-of-Line XML Islands</a></li><li><a href="#sec-removals-tours">4.1.3. Tours</a></li><li><a href="#sec-removals-filesystem-container">4.1.4. Filesystem Container</a></li></ol></li><li><a href="#sec-deprecations">4.2. Features Deprecated/Obsoleted in EPUB 3</a></li><li><ol><li><a href="#sec-deprecations-guide">4.2.1. Guide</a></li><li><a href="#sec-deprecations-ncx">4.2.2. NCX</a></li><li><a href="#sec-deprecations-meta201">4.2.3. 2.0.1 meta element</a></li></ol></li></ol></li></ol></nav><section class="chapter" title="1 Introduction" id="sec-introduction"><h2 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-introduction">›</a> </span>1 Introduction</h2><p>EPUB® is an interchange and delivery format for digital publications, based on XML and Web Standards. An EPUB Publication can be thought of as a reliable packaging of Web content that represents a digital book, magazine, or other type of publication, and able to distributed for online and offline consumption. </p><p>This document, EPUB 3 Changes from EPUB 2.0.1, describes changes made in the third major revision of EPUB, including some rationale for the changes, and some guidance for content authors and Reading System developers regarding backwards compatibility considerations.</p><p>This document is non-normative. The EPUB specification documents should be consulted for definitive information on EPUB 3:</p><div class="itemizedlist" id="sibling-specs"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>EPUB Publications 3.0 <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refPublications3" title="EPUB Publications 3.0">[<abbr>Publications30</abbr>]</a>, which defines publication-level semantics and overarching conformance requirements for EPUB Publications.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>EPUB Content Documents 3.0 <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refContentDocs3" title="EPUB Content Documents 3.0">[<abbr>ContentDocs30</abbr>]</a>, which defines profiles of XHTML, SVG and CSS for use in the context of EPUB Publications.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>EPUB Open Container Format (OCF) 3.0 <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refOCF30" title="Open Container Format 3.0">[<abbr>OCF3</abbr>]</a>, which defines a file format and processing model for encapsulating a set of related resources into a single-file (ZIP) Container.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>EPUB Media Overlays 3.0 <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refOverlays3" title="EPUB Media Overlays 3.0">[<abbr>MediaOverlays30</abbr>]</a>, which defines a format and a processing model for synchronization of text and audio.</p></li></ul></div><p>Unless otherwise specified, terms used herein have the meaning defined in these specifications.</p><section class="section" title="1.1 EPUB Revision History" id="sec-diff-intro-history"><h3 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-diff-intro-history">›</a> </span>1.1 EPUB Revision History</h3><p>EPUB had its roots in the interchange format known as the Open EBook Publication Structure (OEBPS). OEBPS 1.0 was approved in 1999 by the Open eBook Forum, an organization that later became the International Digital Publishing Forum (IDPF). Subsequent revisions 1.1 and 1.2 were approved by the IDPF in 2001 and 2002 respectively.</p><p> It was realized that a need existed for a format standard that could be used for delivery as well as interchange, and work began in late 2005 on a single-file container format for OEPBS, which was approved by the IDPF as the OEBPS Container Format (OCF) in 2006. Work on a 2.0 revision of OEBPS began in parallel which was approved as the renamed EPUB 2.0 in October, 2007, consisting of a triumvirate of specifications: Open Package Format (OPF), Open Publication Format (OPF) together with OCF. EPUB 2.0.1, a maintenance update to the 2.0 specification set primarily intended clarify and correct errata in the specifications, was approved in September, 2010. <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refOPF2" title="Open Packaging Format 2.0.1">[<abbr>OPF2</abbr>]</a> <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refOPS2" title="Open Publication Structure 2.0.1">[<abbr>OPS2</abbr>]</a> <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refOCF2" title="Open Container Format 2.0.1">[<abbr>OCF2</abbr>]</a></p></section></section><section class="chapter" title="2 Changes to EPUB Specification Documents" id="sec-history"><h2 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-history">›</a> </span>2 Changes to EPUB Specification Documents</h2><p>In addition to significant changes in functionality, the EPUB 3 specifications are structured and named differently than EPUB 2.0.1, and certain terminology changes have been made to improve clarity. The following sections describe these changes.</p><section class="section" title="2.1 Changes in Document Organization" id="sec-history-intro"><h3 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-history-intro">›</a> </span>2.1 Changes in Document Organization </h3><p>In order to help those familiar with EPUB 2.0.1 to understand the mapping of information in EPUB 3, the following table shows where information in EPUB 3 is located relative to the EPUB 2.0.1 specifications.</p><div class="table" title="Specification Document Organization" id="spec-org"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#spec-org">›</a> </span><p class="title"><strong>Specification Document Organization</strong></p><div class="table-contents"><table><colgroup><col class="c1"/><col class="c2"/><col class="c3"/></colgroup><thead><tr><th class="entry">Area</th><th class="entry">EPUB 3 Specification</th><th class="entry">EPUB 2.0.1 Specification</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td class="entry">Overview</td><td class="entry"><a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refEPUB3Overview" title="EPUB 3 Overview">EPUB 3 Overview</a></td><td class="entry">(throughout)</td></tr><tr><td class="entry">Publication-level Specification &amp; Package Docs</td><td class="entry"><a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refPublications3" title="EPUB Publications 3.0">EPUB Publications 3.0</a></td><td class="entry"><a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refOPF2" title="Open Packaging Format 2.0.1">Open Packaging Format 2.0.1</a></td></tr><tr><td class="entry">Content-level Specification</td><td class="entry"><a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refContentDocs3" title="EPUB Content Documents 3.0">EPUB Content Documents 3.0</a></td><td class="entry"><a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refOPS2" title="Open Publication Structure 2.0.1">Open Publication Structure 2.0.1</a></td></tr><tr><td class="entry">EPUB Navigation Documents</td><td class="entry"><a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refContentDocs3" title="EPUB Content Documents 3.0">EPUB Content Documents 3.0</a></td><td class="entry">N/A (NCX referenced as DAISY specification)</td></tr><tr><td class="entry">Media Overlays</td><td class="entry"><a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refOverlays3" title="EPUB Media Overlays 3.0">EPUB Media Overlays 3.0</a></td><td class="entry">N/A</td></tr><tr><td class="entry">Container packaging</td><td class="entry"><a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refOCF30" title="Open Container Format 3.0">EPUB Open Container Format 3.0</a></td><td class="entry"><a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refOCF2" title="Open Container Format 2.0.1">Open Container Format 2.0.1</a></td></tr><tr><td class="entry">Changes from previous version</td><td class="entry">EPUB 3 Changes from EPUB 2.0.1</td><td class="entry">(throughout)</td></tr></tbody></table></div></div><br class="table-break"/></section><section class="section" title="2.2 Changes in Terminology" id="sec-terminology-changes"><h3 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-terminology-changes">›</a> </span>2.2 Changes in Terminology </h3><p>Maintaining consistent use of terminology from EPUB 2.0.1 to EPUB 3 was a consideration during development, but changes in document organization, feature set and conformance requirements inevitably resulted in a number of changes.</p><p>Each specification contains a Terminology section near the top that defines and explains the new terms (e.g., <span class="phrase"><a href="epub30-terminology.xhtml#terminology">Terminology</a> <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refPublications3" title="EPUB Publications 3.0">[<abbr>Publications30</abbr>]</a></span>). </p></section></section><section class="chapter" title="3 New and Changed Functionality in EPUB 3" id="sec-new-changed"><h2 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-new-changed">›</a> </span>3 New and Changed Functionality in EPUB 3</h2><p>This section describes the major new and changed functionality and constructs present in EPUB 3.</p><section class="section" title="3.1 Content Documents" id="sec-new-changed-cd"><h3 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-new-changed-cd">›</a> </span>3.1 Content Documents</h3><section class="section" title="3.1.1 HTML5" id="sec-new-changed-xhtml5"><h4 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-new-changed-xhtml5">›</a> </span>3.1.1 HTML5</h4><p>EPUB 3's base content format is now based on the XML serialization of HTML5 (XHTML5) <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refContentDocs3" title="EPUB Content Documents 3.0">[<abbr>ContentDocs30</abbr>]</a>, whereas EPUB2 supported two basic content types: a profile of XHTML 1.1 and DTBook <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refOPS2" title="Open Publication Structure 2.0.1">[<abbr>OPS2</abbr>]</a> (a semantically-enhanced markup focused on accessibility concerns).</p><p>The EPUB 3 XHTML Content Document definition includes both extensions to and restrictions on its HTML5 base, many of which are discussed below. Refer to <span class="phrase"><a href="epub30-contentdocs.xhtml#sec-xhtml-additions">HTML5 Extensions and Enhancements</a> <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refContentDocs3" title="EPUB Content Documents 3.0">[<abbr>ContentDocs30</abbr>]</a></span> and <span class="phrase"><a href="epub30-contentdocs.xhtml#sec-xhtml-deviations">HTML5 Deviations and Constraints</a> <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refContentDocs3" title="EPUB Content Documents 3.0">[<abbr>ContentDocs30</abbr>]</a></span> for complete information.</p></section><section class="section" title="3.1.2 SVG" id="sec-new-changed-svg"><h4 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-new-changed-svg">›</a> </span>3.1.2 SVG</h4><p>SVG documents can now appear in the spine in EPUB 3 (i.e., SVG no longer needs to be nested within an XHTML document).</p></section><section class="section" title="3.1.3 MathML" id="sec-new-changed-mathml"><h4 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-new-changed-mathml">›</a> </span>3.1.3 MathML</h4><p><span class="phrase"><a href="epub30-contentdocs.xhtml#sec-xhtml-mathml">Support for MathML</a> <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refContentDocs3" title="EPUB Content Documents 3.0">[<abbr>ContentDocs30</abbr>]</a></span> is new in EPUB 3.</p></section><section class="section" title="3.1.4 Semantic Inflection" id="sec-new-changed-semantic-inflection"><h4 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-new-changed-semantic-inflection">›</a> </span>3.1.4 Semantic Inflection</h4><p>A method for inflecting domain-specific semantics in XHTML Content Documents using attributes has been added. Refer to <span class="phrase"><a href="epub30-contentdocs.xhtml#sec-xhtml-semantic-inflection">Semantic Inflection</a> <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refContentDocs3" title="EPUB Content Documents 3.0">[<abbr>ContentDocs30</abbr>]</a></span> for more information.</p></section><section class="section" title="3.1.5 Content Switching" id="sec-new-changed-switch"><h4 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-new-changed-switch">›</a> </span>3.1.5 Content Switching</h4><p>The <code>switch</code> element, initially introduced in <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refOPS2" title="Open Publication Structure 2.0.1">[<abbr>OPS2</abbr>]</a>, has been simplified by having its processing model defined so that it does not require document preprocessing, and by removing the <code>requiredModules</code> attribute. This simplification is backwards compatible with existing EPUB 2 Reading System implementations. Refer to <span class="phrase"><a href="epub30-contentdocs.xhtml#sec-xhtml-content-switch">Content Switching</a> <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refContentDocs3" title="EPUB Content Documents 3.0">[<abbr>ContentDocs30</abbr>]</a></span> for more information.</p></section></section><section class="section" title="3.2 Navigation" id="sec-new-changed-nav"><h3 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-new-changed-nav">›</a> </span>3.2 Navigation</h3><p>EPUB 3 defines a new human- and machine-readable grammar for publication-wide navigation information via a specialized adaptation of the general EPUB XHTML Content Document. <span class="phrase"><a href="epub30-contentdocs.xhtml#sec-xhtml-nav">EPUB Navigation Documents</a> <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refContentDocs3" title="EPUB Content Documents 3.0">[<abbr>ContentDocs30</abbr>]</a></span> supersedes the NCX grammar used in EPUB 2.</p><p>While NCX support was optional for EPUB2 Reading Systems, inclusion of and support for EPUB Navigation Documents is required in EPUB 3.</p><p>As noted in <span class="phrase"><a href="epub30-publications.xhtml#ncx-superseded">NCX Superseded</a> <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refPublications3" title="EPUB Publications 3.0">[<abbr>Publications30</abbr>]</a></span>, EPUB 3 Publications may include the EPUB 2 NCX for EPUB 2 Reading System forward compatibility purposes.</p></section><section class="section" title="3.3 Linking" id="sec-new-changed-linking"><h3 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-new-changed-linking">›</a> </span>3.3 Linking</h3><p>The IDPF has established a <a href="http://idpf.org/epub/linking/">registry of linking schemes</a>. </p><p><a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refEPUBCFI" title="EPUB Canonical Fragment Identifier (epubcfi) Specification">[<abbr>EPUBCFI</abbr>]</a> is the first scheme added to the registry, and can be used for linking into, between and within Publications. Reading System support for this scheme is required.</p></section><section class="section" title="3.4 Scripting and Interactivity" id="sec-new-changed-scrp"><h3 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-new-changed-scrp">›</a> </span>3.4 Scripting and Interactivity</h3><section class="section" title="3.4.1 Scripting" id="sec-new-changed-scripting"><h4 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-new-changed-scripting">›</a> </span>3.4.1 Scripting</h4><p>EPUB 3 Reading Systems may optionally support scripting, which was explicitly discouraged in EPUB 2. Scripted content <span class="phrase"><a href="epub30-publications.xhtml#scripted">must be identified as such in the package manifest</a> <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refPublications3" title="EPUB Publications 3.0">[<abbr>Publications30</abbr>]</a></span> and is subject to other restrictions and limitations as further described in <span class="phrase"><a href="epub30-contentdocs.xhtml#sec-scripted-content">Scripted Content Documents</a> <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refContentDocs3" title="EPUB Content Documents 3.0">[<abbr>ContentDocs30</abbr>]</a></span>.</p><p>The new custom <span class="phrase"><a href="epub30-contentdocs.xhtml#app-epubReadingSystem">epubReadingSystem JavaScript object</a> <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refContentDocs3" title="EPUB Content Documents 3.0">[<abbr>ContentDocs30</abbr>]</a></span>, provides scripts a means of querying a Reading System to determine its capabilities.</p></section><section class="section" title="3.4.2 Triggers" id="sec-new-changed-trigger"><h4 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-new-changed-trigger">›</a> </span>3.4.2 Triggers</h4><p>To facilitate content-specific user experiences for audio and video controls without requiring scripting, a new <code>trigger</code> element is defined in the <span class="phrase"><a href="epub30-contentdocs.xhtml#sec-xhtml">EPUB profile of HTML5</a> <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refContentDocs3" title="EPUB Content Documents 3.0">[<abbr>ContentDocs30</abbr>]</a></span> that allows declarative binding of activation events from image or textual elements to properties of audio and video players (e.g., play, stop, pause).</p></section><section class="section" title="3.4.3 Bindings" id="sec-new-changed-bindings"><h4 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-new-changed-bindings">›</a> </span>3.4.3 Bindings</h4><p>The new <code><span class="phrase"><a href="epub30-publications.xhtml#sec-bindings-elem">bindings</a> <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refPublications3" title="EPUB Publications 3.0">[<abbr>Publications30</abbr>]</a></span></code> element provides a means to define script-based handlers for non-standard media types.</p></section></section><section class="section" title="3.5 Styling and Layout" id="sec-new-changed-styling"><h3 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-new-changed-styling">›</a> </span>3.5 Styling and Layout</h3><section class="section" title="3.5.1 CSS" id="sec-new-changed-css"><h4 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-new-changed-css">›</a> </span>3.5.1 CSS</h4><p>EPUB 3 defines a profile of CSS based on CSS 2.1 with added modules from CSS3, whereas EPUB 2 was based on a specific subset of CSS 2. Refer to <span class="phrase"><a href="epub30-contentdocs.xhtml#sec-css">EPUB Style Sheets</a> <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refContentDocs3" title="EPUB Content Documents 3.0">[<abbr>ContentDocs30</abbr>]</a></span> for more information.</p><p>Support for <span class="phrase"><a href="epub30-contentdocs.xhtml#sec-xhtml-alternate-style-tags">Alternate Style Tags</a> <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refContentDocs3" title="EPUB Content Documents 3.0">[<abbr>ContentDocs30</abbr>]</a></span> has been added, allowing Users to switch between predefined alternate viewing modes, such as day/night and horizontal/vertical modes.</p></section><section class="section" title="3.5.2 Embedded Fonts" id="sec-new-changed-embedded-fonts"><h4 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-new-changed-embedded-fonts">›</a> </span>3.5.2 Embedded Fonts</h4><p>EPUB 3 requires Reading Systems to support the OpenType and WOFF font formats for embedded fonts in conjunction with the CSS <code class="literal">@font-face</code> rules. Refer to <span class="phrase"><a href="epub30-contentdocs.xhtml#sec-css-fonts">CSS Fonts Level 3</a> <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refContentDocs3" title="EPUB Content Documents 3.0">[<abbr>ContentDocs30</abbr>]</a></span> for more information.</p></section><section class="section" title="3.5.3 Font Obfuscation" id="sec-new-changed-ocf-obf"><h4 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-new-changed-ocf-obf">›</a> </span>3.5.3 Font Obfuscation</h4><p>A new normative section on <span class="phrase"><a href="epub30-ocf.xhtml#font-obfuscation">Font Obfuscation</a> <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refOCF30" title="Open Container Format 3.0">[<abbr>OCF3</abbr>]</a></span> has been added the Open Container Format specification. This issue was previously outlined in <a href="http://www.idpf.org/doc_library/informationaldocs/FontManglingSpec_2.0.1_draft.htm">an IPDF informational document</a>. </p></section></section><section class="section" title="3.6 Rich Media" id="sec-new-changed-media"><h3 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-new-changed-media">›</a> </span>3.6 Rich Media</h3><section class="section" title="3.6.1 Audio and Video" id="sec-new-changed-audio-video"><h4 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-new-changed-audio-video">›</a> </span>3.6.1 Audio and Video</h4><p>EPUB 3 inherits support for the HTML5 <code>audio</code> and <code>video</code> elements.</p><p>EPUB 3 further specifies in its <span class="phrase"><a href="epub30-publications.xhtml#sec-core-media-types">definition of support for Core Media Types</a> <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refPublications3" title="EPUB Publications 3.0">[<abbr>Publications30</abbr>]</a></span> that all Reading Systems that support audio playback must support MP3 audio and should support MP4 AAC LC audio. While no video Core Media Types are defined in this version of EPUB, an <span class="phrase"><a href="epub30-publications.xhtml#note-video-codecs">informative recommendation on codec support</a></span> is provided as guidance to publishers and Reading System developers.</p></section><section class="section" title="3.6.2 Media Overlays" id="sec-new-changed-mo"><h4 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-new-changed-mo">›</a> </span>3.6.2 Media Overlays</h4><p>The EPUB Media Overlays 3.0 <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refOverlays3" title="EPUB Media Overlays 3.0">[<abbr>MediaOverlays30</abbr>]</a> specification defines a format and a processing model for publication-wide synchronization of text and audio.</p></section></section><section class="section" title="3.7 Metadata" id="sec-new-changed-meta"><h3 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-new-changed-meta">›</a> </span>3.7 Metadata</h3><section class="section" title="3.7.1 Publication Metadata and Identity" id="sec-new-changed-meta-package"><h4 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-new-changed-meta-package">›</a> </span>3.7.1 Publication Metadata and Identity</h4><p>The minimally required Package metadata as defined in EPUB 2.0.1 remains fundamentally unchanged. Only one new required metadata property, <code>dcterms:modified</code>, has been added. This new property contributes to the new solution to persistence in Publication Identifiers, as further discussed in <span class="phrase"><a href="epub30-publications.xhtml#sec-package-metadata-identifiers">Publication Identifiers</a> <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refPublications3" title="EPUB Publications 3.0">[<abbr>Publications30</abbr>]</a></span>.</p><p id="new-meta-elem">The generic Package Document <code>meta</code> element <span class="phrase"><a href="epub30-publications.xhtml#sec-meta-elem">has been enhanced</a> <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refPublications3" title="EPUB Publications 3.0">[<abbr>Publications30</abbr>]</a></span> with a declarative term vocabulary association mechanism, as well as the ability to describe not only the Publication as a whole, but also individual resources and/or fragments within it. A set of EPUB-specific metadata properties has been added, allowing for example the identification of the Publication cover image, and sorting of related titles in the bookshelf.</p><p>A new metadata <code><span class="phrase"><a href="epub30-publications.xhtml#sec-link-elem">link</a> <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refPublications3" title="EPUB Publications 3.0">[<abbr>Publications30</abbr>]</a></span></code> element has been added to the Package Document, allowing the association of external supplementary metadata resources with the publication (e.g., ONIX or XMP records).</p></section><section class="section" title="3.7.2 Resource Metadata" id="sec-new-changed-meta-resources"><h4 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-new-changed-meta-resources">›</a> </span>3.7.2 Resource Metadata</h4><p>The new <code>properties</code> attribute on the Package Document manifest <code>item</code> and spine <code>itemref</code> elements allows for the declaration of metadata about individual Publication Resources.</p><p> These declarations are required in EPUB 3 in certain defined circumstances (e.g., for declaring that a Content Document contains scripting). Refer to <span class="phrase"><a href="epub30-publications.xhtml#sec-item-property-values">Manifest item Properties</a> <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refPublications3" title="EPUB Publications 3.0">[<abbr>Publications30</abbr>]</a></span> and <span class="phrase"><a href="epub30-publications.xhtml#sec-itemref-property-values">Spine itemref Properties</a> <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refPublications3" title="EPUB Publications 3.0">[<abbr>Publications30</abbr>]</a></span> for more information.</p></section></section><section class="section" title="3.8 Speech" id="sec-new-changed-speech"><h3 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-new-changed-speech">›</a> </span>3.8 Speech</h3><p>Multiple features to assist Text-to-Speech (TTS) engines have been added. These include Package-level Pronunciation Lexicons, SSML attributes in XHTML Content Documents, and support for the CSS3 Speech Module. <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refContentDocs3" title="EPUB Content Documents 3.0">[<abbr>ContentDocs30</abbr>]</a></p></section><section class="section" title="3.9 Manifest Fallbacks" id="sec-new-changed-package"><h3 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-new-changed-package">›</a> </span>3.9 Manifest Fallbacks</h3><p>The <span class="phrase"><a href="epub30-publications.xhtml#attrdef-item-fallback">manifest fallback mechanism</a></span> has been restricted to only apply to documents in the <code>spine</code>. Publication Resources referenced from XHTML and SVG Content Documents and CSS must now be Core Media Types unless referenced in a context that provides <span class="phrase"><a href="epub30-publications.xhtml#sec-fallback-processing-flow">native intrinsic fallback capabilities</a></span>.</p></section><section class="section" title="3.10 Containment" id="sec-new-changed-ocf"><h3 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-new-changed-ocf">›</a> </span>3.10 Containment</h3><section class="section" title="3.10.1 Remote Resources" id="sec-new-changed-remote"><h4 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-new-changed-remote">›</a> </span>3.10.1 Remote Resources</h4><p>There are new <span class="phrase"><a href="epub30-publications.xhtml#sec-resource-locations">restrictions on references</a> <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refPublications3" title="EPUB Publications 3.0">[<abbr>Publications30</abbr>]</a></span> to remote resources (i.e., Publication Resources not located in the OCF Container). The implications of this change are more fully described in <a href="#sec-removals-filesystem-container" title="4.1.4 Filesystem Container">Removal of Filesystem Container</a>. </p></section><section class="section" title="3.10.2 Whitespace in MIMETYPE file" id="sec-new-changed-ocf-white-space"><h4 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-new-changed-ocf-white-space">›</a> </span>3.10.2 Whitespace in MIMETYPE file</h4><p><a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refOCF2" title="Open Container Format 2.0.1">[<abbr>OCF2</abbr>]</a> restricted the required MIMETYPE file from having any leading or trailing spaces; in <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refOCF30" title="Open Container Format 3.0">[<abbr>OCF3</abbr>]</a> the restriction against trailing whitespace has been removed.</p></section><section class="section" title="3.10.3 Disallowed characters in OCF file names" id="sec-new-changed-ocf-namechars"><h4 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-new-changed-ocf-namechars">›</a> </span>3.10.3 Disallowed characters in OCF file names</h4><p>The list of characters disallowed in OCF file names has been <span class="phrase"><a href="epub30-ocf.xhtml#ocf-fn-chars">extended</a></span>.</p></section></section><section class="section" title="3.11 XML and Unicode" id="sec-new-changed-xml-unicode"><h3 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-new-changed-xml-unicode">›</a> </span>3.11 XML and Unicode</h3><p>Support for XML 1.1, which was deprecated in OPS 2.0.1, has been removed. All XML documents must now be conformant to XML 1.0.</p><p>The referenced version of XML 1.0 is the fifth edition, which means that Unicode version 5.0.0 is now supported (OPS 2.0.1, via its use of XML 1.0 fourth edition, supported Unicode 2.0).</p></section></section><section class="chapter" title="4 EPUB 2.0.1 Features Replaced in EPUB 3" id="sec-replaced"><h2 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-replaced">›</a> </span>4 EPUB 2.0.1 Features Replaced in EPUB 3</h2><p>A number of features in EPUB 3 and its building-block Web Standards replace existing features in EPUB 2.0.1, and several features in EPUB 2.0.1 that were not widely adopted by content authors or Reading Systems are discontinued. Such features, from a content conformance perspective, are either <span class="italic">removed</span> (which means that conformant EPUB 3 content might not use the construct) or <span class="italic">deprecated</span> (which means that use of the construct in EPUB 3 is allowed but not recommended). Note that, in most cases, Reading Systems are still required to support these constructs for backwards compatibility reasons (as normatively stated in the relevant specifications).</p><p>The following sections list the EPUB 2.0.1 features removed and deprecated in EPUB 3.</p><section class="section" title="4.1 Features Removed from EPUB 3" id="sec-removals"><h3 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-removals">›</a> </span>4.1 Features Removed from EPUB 3</h3><section class="section" title="4.1.1 DTBook" id="sec-removals-dtbook"><h4 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-removals-dtbook">›</a> </span>4.1.1 DTBook</h4><p>DAISY DTBook <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refZ39862005" title="ANSI/NISO Z39.86-2005: Specifications for the Digital Talking Book">[<abbr>Z3986-2005</abbr>]</a> was an alternative syntax to XHTML 1.1 for Content Documents in OPS 2.0.1 <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refOPS2" title="Open Publication Structure 2.0.1">[<abbr>OPS2</abbr>]</a> in order to provide an option for more semantic, and thus more accessible, content. As HTML5 includes intrinsic semantic markup capabilities of a similar nature to DTBook, DTBook is no longer an alternative syntax in EPUB 3. </p></section><section class="section" title="4.1.2 Out-of-Line XML Islands" id="sec-removals-out-of-line-XML-islands"><h4 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-removals-out-of-line-XML-islands">›</a> </span>4.1.2 Out-of-Line XML Islands</h4><p>OPF 2.0.1. specified an optional extension mechanism enabling a spine item to be a "custom module" XHTML or arbitrary XML styled with CSS. This feature was not widely adopted by content or Reading Systems, and has been removed from EPUB 3. As a result the <code>item</code> element no longer has the <code>required-namespace</code> and <code>fallback-style</code> attributes.</p></section><section class="section" title="4.1.3 Tours" id="sec-removals-tours"><h4 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-removals-tours">›</a> </span>4.1.3 Tours</h4><p>The Package Document schema no longer includes the <code>tours</code> element (which was deprecated in OPF 2.0.1).</p></section><section class="section" title="4.1.4 Filesystem Container" id="sec-removals-filesystem-container"><h4 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-removals-filesystem-container">›</a> </span>4.1.4 Filesystem Container</h4><p>OCF 3.0 <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refOCF30" title="Open Container Format 3.0">[<abbr>OCF3</abbr>]</a> only defines a single-file (ZIP-based) container, and no longer defines a "Filesystem Container" abstraction. This change was made in conjunction with new restrictions in Publications 3.0 restricting references to remote resources in EPUB Publications to specific media types and contexts. Taken together, these changes mean that the only instantiation of an EPUB Publication defined at this time is the EPUB ZIP Container, and that EPUB files must in general contain all constituent parts of the Publication, with certain well-defined exceptions. </p><p>These changes may seem counter-intuitive given that online consumption of content is increasingly prevalent, as are browser-based Reading System implementations. The Working Group recognizes this, and understands that in an online environment, particularly when browser-based, it will often be inefficient or even impractical to download an entire EPUB file to a client system before reading can occur. A number of significant issues exist for browser-based Reading Systems, however, including cross-domain resource loading restrictions in the browser security model and the potential for inadvertent interaction between script-based interactivity within EPUB 3 content and script-based Reading System implementations. Publishers and content distributors providing EPUB content are presently utilizing server-based software to manage these issues, in effect creating a distributed client-server Reading System in which a packaged EPUB file is ingested on a server and may be transformed en route to client software into whatever set of resources is convenient for that implementation. Consequently, there was no pressing requirement to define an interoperable distributed form of an EPUB Publication in order to meet the requirements of the Working Group charter. </p><p>EPUB 2.x (via the OCF Filesystem container and by being relatively vague in the OPF specification about where absolute URLs were legal) can be considered to have incompletely described distributed publications without specifying conformance requirements for them. This was a combination of historical (with respect to OPF which was a revision to a predecessor specification that pre-dated any ZIP-based container) and aspirational (with respect to OCF) factors. </p><p>Since the Working Group did have a goal to improve the interoperability of the EPUB ecosystem by increasing the clarity and rigor of our conformance requirements, it was decided that these partial definitions were unhelpful and should be removed from the EPUB 3 base specifications. The Working Group understands that networked Publications will be increasingly important, and expects future work to include development of robust interoperable conformance definitions for distributed EPUB Publications based on emerging content publisher and Reading System requirements.</p></section></section><section class="section" title="4.2 Features Deprecated/Obsoleted in EPUB 3" id="sec-deprecations"><h3 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-deprecations">›</a> </span>4.2 Features Deprecated/Obsoleted in EPUB 3</h3><section class="section" title="4.2.1 Guide" id="sec-deprecations-guide"><h4 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-deprecations-guide">›</a> </span>4.2.1 Guide</h4><p>Use of the optional <code>guide</code> element in the Package Document has been deprecated in favor of the EPUB Navigation Document <code class="literal">landmarks</code> feature. Refer to <span class="phrase"><a href="epub30-contentdocs.xhtml#sec-xhtml-nav">EPUB Navigation Documents</a> <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refContentDocs3" title="EPUB Content Documents 3.0">[<abbr>ContentDocs30</abbr>]</a></span> for more information.</p></section><section class="section" title="4.2.2 NCX" id="sec-deprecations-ncx"><h4 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-deprecations-ncx">›</a> </span>4.2.2 NCX</h4><p>As described in more detail in <a class="xref" href="#sec-new-changed-nav" title="3.2 Navigation">Navigation</a> above, the NCX has been superseded in favor of <span class="phrase"><a href="epub30-contentdocs.xhtml#sec-xhtml-nav">EPUB Navigation Documents</a> <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refContentDocs3" title="EPUB Content Documents 3.0">[<abbr>ContentDocs30</abbr>]</a></span>. </p></section><section class="section" title="4.2.3 2.0.1 meta element" id="sec-deprecations-meta201"><h4 class="title"><span class="link-marker"><a class="hidden-reveal" title="Link here" href="#sec-deprecations-meta201">›</a> </span>4.2.3 2.0.1 meta element</h4><p>The <code>meta</code> element as defined in <a class="biblioref" href="epub30-references.xhtml#refOPF2" title="Open Packaging Format 2.0.1">[<abbr>OPF2</abbr>]</a> has been superseded by the <a href="#new-meta-elem">new Package Document meta element</a>. </p></section></section></section></body></html>
