<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-model href="http://www.daisy.org/pipeline/modules/nordic/nordic-html5.rng"?>
<?xml-model href="http://www.daisy.org/pipeline/modules/nordic/nordic2015-1.sch"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/# a11y: http://www.idpf.org/epub/vocab/package/a11y/# schema: http://schema.org/"
    xmlns:nordic="http://www.mtm.se/epub/">
    <head>
        <meta charset="UTF-8" />
        <title>Valentin Haüy - the father of the education for the blind</title>
        <meta content="C00000" name="dc:identifier" />
        <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width" />
        <meta name="a11y:certifiedBy" content="Certifying Organization"/>
        <meta name="schema:audience" content="Adult"/>
        <style type="text/css" xml:space="preserve">
            .initialism{
                -epub-speak-as:spell-out;
            }
            .list-style-type-none{
                list-style-type:none;
            }
            table[class ^= "table-rules-"],
            table[class *= " table-rules-"]{
                border-width:thin;
                border-style:hidden;
            }
            table[class ^= "table-rules-"]:not(.table-rules-none),
            table[class *= " table-rules-"]:not(.table-rules-none){
                border-collapse:collapse;
            }
            table[class ^= "table-rules-"] td,
            table[class *= " table-rules-"] td{
                border-width:thin;
                border-style:none;
            }
            table[class ^= "table-rules-"] th,
            table[class *= " table-rules-"] th{
                border-width:thin;
                border-style:none;
            }
            table.table-rules-none td,
            table.table-rules-none th{
                border-width:thin;
                border-style:hidden;
            }
            table.table-rules-all td,
            table.table-rules-all th{
                border-width:thin;
                border-style:solid;
            }
            table.table-rules-cols td,
            table.table-rules-cols th{
                border-left-width:thin;
                border-right-width:thin;
                border-left-style:solid;
                border-right-style:solid;
            }
            table.table-rules-rows tr{
                border-top-width:thin;
                border-bottom-width:thin;
                border-top-style:solid;
                border-bottom-style:solid;
            }
            table.table-rules-groups colgroup{
                border-left-width:thin;
                border-right-width:thin;
                border-left-style:solid;
                border-right-style:solid;
            }
            table.table-rules-groups tfoot,
            table.table-rules-groups thead,
            table.table-rules-groups tbody{
                border-top-width:thin;
                border-bottom-width:thin;
                border-top-style:solid;
                border-bottom-style:solid;
            }
            table[class ^= "table-frame-"],
            table[class *= " table-frame-"]{
                border:thin hidden;
            }
            table.table-frame-void{
                border-style:hidden;
            }
            table.table-frame-above{
                border-style:outset hidden hidden hidden;
            }
            table.table-frame-below{
                border-style:hidden hidden outset hidden;
            }
            table.table-frame-lhs{
                border-style:hidden hidden hidden outset;
            }
            table.table-frame-rhs{
                border-style:hidden outset hidden hidden;
            }
            table.table-frame-hsides{
                border-style:outset hidden;
            }
            table.table-frame-vsides{
                border-style:hidden outset;
            }
            table.table-frame-box{
                border-style:outset;
            }
            table.table-frame-border{
                border-style:outset;
            }</style>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/accessibility.css" />
        <link rel="prev" href="C00000-03-frontmatter.xhtml" />
        <link rel="next" href="C00000-05-chapter.xhtml" />
    </head>
    <body id="d910e694" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
        <div id="page_5" class="page-normal" epub:type="pagebreak" title="5"></div>
        <h1 id="d910e696">1. Research questions</h1>
        <pre><code>
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        ...
    }
</code></pre>
        <p>
            <span id="dtb128">My interest in Valentin Haüy, the father of education for the blind in Europe, was aroused while working at <abbr title="The Swedish Library of Talking Books and Braille"
                    id="d910e709" epub:type="z3998:initialism" class="initialism">MTM</abbr> on a book about Louis Braille, the creator of the Braille system. </span>
            <span id="dtb129">I discovered that there was a dearth of literature on Haüy in Swedish, and that in the limited literature I was able to consult, information about him was often
                contradictory. </span>
            <span id="dtb130">In particular, I noticed that there were no references to the period of the more than ten years which Haüy spent in Russia.</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span id="dtb131">In this paper I have proposed a number of research questions:</span>
        </p>
        <ul id="dtb132">
            <li id="d910e728">
                <span id="dtb133">Who was Valentin Haüy? </span>
                <span id="dtb134">What do we know about his life?</span>
            </li>
            <li id="d910e737">
                <span id="dtb135">What role did he play in the creation of special education for the blind?</span>
            </li>
            <li id="d910e743">
                <span id="dtb136">Was he really "the father of education for the blind" or were there others who merit that distinction?</span>
            </li>
            <li id="d910e749">
                <span id="dtb137">How great was his influence on the introduction of education for the blind in Sweden and other countries?</span>
            </li>
            <li id="d910e755">
                <span id="dtb138">What were his teaching methods?</span>
            </li>
            <li id="d910e762">
                <span id="dtb139">What happened during his stay in Russia - did he in fact found an institute for the blind in St Petersburg?</span>
            </li>
        </ul>
        <!-- MathML example from https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/MathML/Examples/MathML_Pythagorean_Theorem -->
        <p>We will now prove the Pythogorian theorem:</p>
        <p><strong>Statement</strong>: In a right angled triangle, the square of the hypotenuse is equal to the sum of the squares of the other two sides.</p>
        <p>i.e, If a and b are the legs and c is the hypotenuse then<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" alttext="math" altimg="images/valentin.jpg"><mrow><msup><mi>  a </mi><mn>2</mn></msup> <mo> + </mo> <msup><mi> b </mi><mn>2</mn></msup> <mo> = </mo> <msup><mi> c </mi><mn>2</mn></msup> </mrow> </math>.</p>
        <p>Here is the same expression in HTML block context:</p>
        <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" alttext="math" altimg="images/valentin.jpg">
            <mrow>
                <mrow>
                    <msup>
                        <mi>a</mi>
                        <mn>2</mn>
                    </msup>
                    <mo>+</mo>
                    <msup>
                        <mi>b</mi>
                        <mn>2</mn>
                    </msup>
                </mrow>
                <mo>=</mo>
                <msup>
                    <mi>c</mi>
                    <mn>2</mn>
                </msup>
            </mrow>
        </math>
    </body>
</html>
