<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-model href="http://www.daisy.org/pipeline/modules/nordic/nordic-html5.rng"?>
<?xml-model href="http://www.daisy.org/pipeline/modules/nordic/nordic2015-1.sch"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#"
    xmlns:nordic="http://www.mtm.se/epub/">
    <head>
        <meta charset="UTF-8" />
        <title>Valentin Haüy - the father of the education for the blind</title>
        <meta content="C00000" name="dc:identifier" />
        <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width" />
        <style type="text/css" xml:space="preserve">
            .initialism{
                -epub-speak-as:spell-out;
            }
            .list-style-type-none{
                list-style-type:none;
            }
            table[class ^= "table-rules-"],
            table[class *= " table-rules-"]{
                border-width:thin;
                border-style:hidden;
            }
            table[class ^= "table-rules-"]:not(.table-rules-none),
            table[class *= " table-rules-"]:not(.table-rules-none){
                border-collapse:collapse;
            }
            table[class ^= "table-rules-"] td,
            table[class *= " table-rules-"] td{
                border-width:thin;
                border-style:none;
            }
            table[class ^= "table-rules-"] th,
            table[class *= " table-rules-"] th{
                border-width:thin;
                border-style:none;
            }
            table.table-rules-none td,
            table.table-rules-none th{
                border-width:thin;
                border-style:hidden;
            }
            table.table-rules-all td,
            table.table-rules-all th{
                border-width:thin;
                border-style:solid;
            }
            table.table-rules-cols td,
            table.table-rules-cols th{
                border-left-width:thin;
                border-right-width:thin;
                border-left-style:solid;
                border-right-style:solid;
            }
            table.table-rules-rows tr{
                border-top-width:thin;
                border-bottom-width:thin;
                border-top-style:solid;
                border-bottom-style:solid;
            }
            table.table-rules-groups colgroup{
                border-left-width:thin;
                border-right-width:thin;
                border-left-style:solid;
                border-right-style:solid;
            }
            table.table-rules-groups tfoot,
            table.table-rules-groups thead,
            table.table-rules-groups tbody{
                border-top-width:thin;
                border-bottom-width:thin;
                border-top-style:solid;
                border-bottom-style:solid;
            }
            table[class ^= "table-frame-"],
            table[class *= " table-frame-"]{
                border:thin hidden;
            }
            table.table-frame-void{
                border-style:hidden;
            }
            table.table-frame-above{
                border-style:outset hidden hidden hidden;
            }
            table.table-frame-below{
                border-style:hidden hidden outset hidden;
            }
            table.table-frame-lhs{
                border-style:hidden hidden hidden outset;
            }
            table.table-frame-rhs{
                border-style:hidden outset hidden hidden;
            }
            table.table-frame-hsides{
                border-style:outset hidden;
            }
            table.table-frame-vsides{
                border-style:hidden outset;
            }
            table.table-frame-box{
                border-style:outset;
            }
            table.table-frame-border{
                border-style:outset;
            }</style>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/accessibility.css" />
        <link rel="prev" href="C00000-10-chapter.xhtml" />
        <link rel="next" href="C00000-12-footnotes.xhtml" />
    </head>
    <body id="d910e4160" epub:type="bodymatter conclusion">
        <h1 id="d910e4162">5. Discussion and conclusions</h1>
        <p>
            <span id="dtb936">In Chapter 1, I posed a number of questions. </span>
            <span id="dtb937">Have I answered them successfully?</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span id="dtb938">By contrasting information from different sources, I have managed to compile a biography of Valentin Haüy. </span>
            <span id="dtb939">During my studies, further questions emerged:</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span id="dtb940">- What factors can be said to have determined Haüy's abandoning his work as a translator and interpreter in order to dedicate his efforts to the education of the
                blind?</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span id="dtb941">My answer is: There were probably several factors involved. </span>
            <span id="dtb942">We can assume that the first proof Haüy had that the disabled were educable was when he witnessed deaf pupils from the abbé l'épée's institute performing in public. </span>
            <span id="dtb943">As he himself said, his encounter with the blind musicians at the St Ovid market was of decisive importance to his commitment to the blind. </span>
            <span id="dtb944">That incident may in fact be seen as an epiphany (moment of revelation), a turning-point in Haüy's life. </span>
            <span id="dtb945">Another such critical incident was his meeting with Lésueur. </span>
            <span id="dtb946">Denzin (1989) in Engström (1995), describes epiphanies as "interactional moments and experiences which leave marks on people's lives".</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span id="dtb947">- What is the characteristic feature of Haüy's life?</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span id="dtb948">If I dared to classify Haüy's life at all, I would say that in many ways it was dramatic. </span>
            <span id="dtb949">Initially, Haüy appears to have been a monarchist, but at the same time he belonged to the Age of Enlightenment. </span>
            <span id="dtb950">Louis XVI was his benefactor, and in fact Haüy's pedagogic work, Essai sur l'education des aveugles, is dedicated to him. </span>
            <span id="dtb951">Later, Haüy became an active revolutionary. </span>
            <span id="dtb952">But is this so remarkable? </span>
            <span id="d910e4242">
                <span id="dtb953">He moved in precisely those circles - mainly composed of academics and public officials - from which the French Revolution sprang </span>
                <a id="dtb954" epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="C00000-12-footnotes.xhtml#fn_98">98</a>
                <span id="dtb955">.</span>
            </span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span id="dtb956">Haüy's behaviour to Sicard was certainly not particularly friendly, but on the other hand, Sicard had his revenge when he denounced Haüy to the police. </span>
            <span id="dtb957">In any case, it would seem that Haüy's activities during the French Revolution did not perturb Alexander I or Louis XVIII to any great degree.</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span id="dtb958">Haüy was also a utilitarian (a term coined by Jeremy Bentham). </span>
            <span id="dtb959">He believed wholeheartedly that the blind should taught to be self-sufficient. </span>
            <span id="dtb960">This utilitarian view characterised teaching of the blind for a long time and is still the basis of education for the blind in the <abbr title="United States of America"
                    id="d910e4274" epub:type="z3998:initialism" class="initialism">USA</abbr>, Canada and several Asian countries where the aim of the education for the blind is that they should
                eventually be able to fend for themselves in life. </span>
            <span id="d910e4278">
                <span id="dtb961">Haüy does not stand alone amongst his contemporaries in taking this utilitarian view of education for the visually impaired: it was characteristic of all teaching
                    during the period of the French Revolution </span>
                <a id="dtb962" epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="C00000-12-footnotes.xhtml#fn_99">99</a>
                <span id="dtb963">.</span>
            </span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span id="dtb964">- Can we rightly call Haüy the father of education for the blind?</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span id="dtb965">I have shown that experimentation in education for visually impaired pupils originated in several countries; there are thus several persons, contemporaries of Haüy, who
                might well be called pioneers of education for the blind.</span>
        </p>
        <div id="page_27" class="page-normal" epub:type="pagebreak" title="27"></div>
        <p>
            <span id="dtb966">Pritchard (1963), however, emphasises that Haüy was unique in that he created a system of organised education for the blind based on a carefully thought-out method. </span>
            <span id="dtb967">The outstanding feature of Haüy's enterprise - which sets him apart from British pedagogues of the time - was the founding of a school in the true sense, which imparted
                free education to all blind children, regardless of sex or social class. </span>
            <span id="dtb968">A pupil did not have to be rich or highly intelligent to be admitted to his school. </span>
            <span id="dtb969">All previous attempts at educating the visually handicapped had been limited to children of well-to-do families and a few "blind child prodigies". </span>
            <span id="dtb970">Haüy was also a pioneer of integration and equal opportunities. </span>
            <span id="dtb971">At the Paris institute, blind and sighted children were taught side by side. </span>
            <span id="dtb972">Haüy was convinced that his blind pupils, in time, would be capable of teaching the sighted. </span>
            <span id="dtb973">Furthermore, Haüy's methods involved co-education, which must be considered quite radical for the time. </span>
            <span id="dtb974">Haüy was, too, a pioneer of education for young children; he was teaching small children at the Musée des Aveugles long before Fröbel founded his school at Kilham in
                Germany in 1816. </span>
            <span id="dtb975">The idea of integration crops up repeatedly in his Essai sur l'Education des Aveugles. </span>
            <span id="dtb976">He insisted in postponing for as long as possible the use of special teaching aids for the blind in such subjects as arithmetic since he wished the blind and the sighted
                to be taught together.</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span id="dtb977">One of the most basic elements in the education of the blind is the teaching of reading and writing. </span>
            <span id="dtb978">Today we describe visual impairment as "an information handicap". </span>
            <span id="dtb979">Haüy's greatest claim to fame is that he genuinely attempted to solve this enormous obstacle to learning by producing raised print books.</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span id="dtb980">Folke Johansen (1983) believes that Valentin Haüy's raised letters were very difficult to read, but that his printing method was a unique invention. </span>
            <span id="dtb981">It remained in use until modern computer technology made it possible to produce tactile writing. </span>
            <span id="d910e4364">
                <span id="dtb982">Indeed, Haüy has sometimes been called "The Gutenberg of the Blind" </span>
                <a id="dtb983" epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="C00000-12-footnotes.xhtml#fn_100">100</a>
                <span id="dtb984">.</span>
            </span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span id="d910e4379">
                <span id="dtb985">Haüy was not a pioneer of object lessons for blind children, although he did continue what others before him had begun </span>
                <a id="dtb986" epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="C00000-12-footnotes.xhtml#fn_101">101</a>
                <span id="dtb987">. </span>
            </span>
            <span id="dtb988">He was more practical in his approach to the problems involved in educating blind children, producing useful material and equipment (such as his printing press) which he
                exported to other institutes for the blind in Europe.</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span id="dtb989">Chapter 4 demonstrates Haüy's indirect influence on education for the blind in Sweden and Denmark in the early 19th century. </span>
            <span id="dtb990">Pär Aron Borg was unwilling to recognise that he had learned anything from other pedagogues, although we find ample evidence that he was in fact influenced by Haüy. </span>
            <span id="dtb991">In Denmark, Brorson consciously opposed Haüy's ideas when he refused to introduce his methods of teaching the blind to read and write. </span>
            <span id="dtb992">In the wider perspective, however, it is clearly the case that Haüy's teaching methods formed the basis of the organised education of the blind which developed in the
                Nordic countries in the 1850s and 1860s. </span>
            <span id="dtb993">A general interest in the education of blind children in Sweden and Denmark is not evident, however, before the introduction of elementary schooling.</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span id="dtb994">Pierre Henri (1987) suggests that Haüy's teaching methods were in many aspects rather naïve and indicated serious deficiencies in his knowledge of the blind. </span>
            <span id="dtb995">Henri underlines the fact that Haüy's successor and critic, Guillé, in his Essai sur l'instruction des aveugles, ou exposé analytique des procédés employés pour les
                instruire (1819) developed a much more sophisticated theoretical approach to the education of the blind. </span>
            <span id="d910e4422">
                <span id="dtb996">While he was director of the institute, however, Guillé did not increase the number of textbooks or teaching aids for use in object lessons </span>
                <a id="dtb997" epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="C00000-12-footnotes.xhtml#fn_102">102</a>
                <span id="dtb998">.</span>
            </span>
        </p>
        <div id="page_28" class="page-normal" epub:type="pagebreak" title="28"></div>
        <p>
            <span id="dtb999">Then we come to the question: Did Haüy in fact found an institute for the blind in St Petersburg?</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span id="dtb1000">It is clear that during his stay in Russia Haüy did found a school for the blind in St Petersburg in spite of considerable difficulties, one of which was the fact that
                he had no knowledge of the Russian language. </span>
            <span id="dtb1001">I ask myself how a man who was said to possess a gift for languages and who was fluent, it was also said, in ten or so modern languages, could have travelled to Russia
                without knowing any Russian, although it is possible that he learned the language during the period which Skrébitsky was unable to document (1811-1817). </span>
            <span id="dtb1002">It is highly probable that Haüy's difficulties in Russia were in fact caused by his lack of knowledge of Russian and by the fact that he was not familiar with the
                religion or culture of that country. </span>
            <span id="dtb1003">One illustration of his lack of knowledge of Russian society is that he tried to teach blind students to play the organ while in St Petersburg, in his ignorance of the
                fact that organ music does not form part of the Greek Orthodox Church's rites. </span>
            <span id="dtb1004">Skrébitsky (1884) also believes that Haüy was completely taken in by the public officials at the ministry and became a victim of Russian bureaucracy.</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span id="dtb1005">Skrébitsky proves that Haüy brought his wife and son to Russia although he never requested any extra travel allowance for them. </span>
            <span id="dtb1006">Madame Haüy remains a mystery and it is impossible to judge her contribution as a teacher. </span>
            <span id="d910e4470">
                <span id="dtb1007">All we know is that she taught at both the Musée des Aveugles </span>
                <a id="dtb1008" epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="C00000-12-footnotes.xhtml#fn_103">103</a>
                <span id="dtb1009"> and the institute in St Petersburg.</span>
            </span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span id="dtb1010">Finally, I am convinced that this brief outline of the life of Valentin Haüy demonstrates beyond doubt his importance in the history of education of the blind and that
                he is truly worthy to be called "the father of education for the blind".</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span id="dtb1011">The Riksdag (Swedish parliament) and the government's policy concerning handicapped children towards the end of the 1970s and early 1980s stated, amongst other things,
                that the latter should be integrated into the general educational system. </span>
            <span id="dtb1012">Underlying this policy is a belief in equality and fraternity, two of the fundamental values of the Enlightenment. </span>
            <span id="dtb1013">The Swedish government recently presented the draft of a proposed law (pro. 1999/2000:79) to the Riksdag: Från patient till medborgare - en nationell handlingsplan för
                handikappolitiken (From patient to citizen - a national policy for the handicapped). </span>
            <span id="dtb1014">This was a consequence of Sweden's adoption of the <abbr title="United Nations" id="d910e4503" epub:type="z3998:initialism" class="initialism">UN</abbr> standard
                legislation on the right of the handicapped to participation and equality and other amendments to the Declaration of Human Rights. </span>
            <span id="dtb1015">Haüy's ideas on integration and participation in society were thus strikingly modern.</span>
        </p>
    </body>
</html>
