<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-model href="http://www.daisy.org/pipeline/modules/nordic/nordic-html5.rng"?>
<?xml-model href="http://www.daisy.org/pipeline/modules/nordic/nordic2015-1.sch"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="sv" lang="sv" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/#"
    xmlns:nordic="http://www.mtm.se/epub/">
    <head>
        <meta charset="UTF-8" />
        <title>Valentin Haüy - the father of the education for the blind</title>
        <meta content="C00000" name="dc:identifier" />
        <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width" />
        <style type="text/css" xml:space="preserve">
            .initialism{
                -epub-speak-as:spell-out;
            }
            .list-style-type-none{
                list-style-type:none;
            }
            table[class ^= "table-rules-"],
            table[class *= " table-rules-"]{
                border-width:thin;
                border-style:hidden;
            }
            table[class ^= "table-rules-"]:not(.table-rules-none),
            table[class *= " table-rules-"]:not(.table-rules-none){
                border-collapse:collapse;
            }
            table[class ^= "table-rules-"] td,
            table[class *= " table-rules-"] td{
                border-width:thin;
                border-style:none;
            }
            table[class ^= "table-rules-"] th,
            table[class *= " table-rules-"] th{
                border-width:thin;
                border-style:none;
            }
            table.table-rules-none td,
            table.table-rules-none th{
                border-width:thin;
                border-style:hidden;
            }
            table.table-rules-all td,
            table.table-rules-all th{
                border-width:thin;
                border-style:solid;
            }
            table.table-rules-cols td,
            table.table-rules-cols th{
                border-left-width:thin;
                border-right-width:thin;
                border-left-style:solid;
                border-right-style:solid;
            }
            table.table-rules-rows tr{
                border-top-width:thin;
                border-bottom-width:thin;
                border-top-style:solid;
                border-bottom-style:solid;
            }
            table.table-rules-groups colgroup{
                border-left-width:thin;
                border-right-width:thin;
                border-left-style:solid;
                border-right-style:solid;
            }
            table.table-rules-groups tfoot,
            table.table-rules-groups thead,
            table.table-rules-groups tbody{
                border-top-width:thin;
                border-bottom-width:thin;
                border-top-style:solid;
                border-bottom-style:solid;
            }
            table[class ^= "table-frame-"],
            table[class *= " table-frame-"]{
                border:thin hidden;
            }
            table.table-frame-void{
                border-style:hidden;
            }
            table.table-frame-above{
                border-style:outset hidden hidden hidden;
            }
            table.table-frame-below{
                border-style:hidden hidden outset hidden;
            }
            table.table-frame-lhs{
                border-style:hidden hidden hidden outset;
            }
            table.table-frame-rhs{
                border-style:hidden outset hidden hidden;
            }
            table.table-frame-hsides{
                border-style:outset hidden;
            }
            table.table-frame-vsides{
                border-style:hidden outset;
            }
            table.table-frame-box{
                border-style:outset;
            }
            table.table-frame-border{
                border-style:outset;
            }</style>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/accessibility.css" />
        <link rel="prev" href="C00000-04-chapter.xhtml" />
        <link rel="next" href="C00000-06-chapter.xhtml" />
    </head>
    <body id="d910e770" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
        <h1 id="d910e772">2. Purpose, method and sources</h1>
        <p>
            <span id="dtb142">My purpose in this paper is to shed some light on Valentin Haüy, the person, and the role he played in the history of education for the blind, and to attempt to ascertain
                whether he was influential in the introduction of education for the blind in other countries, particularly in Sweden.</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span id="dtb143">For obvious reasons, I have chosen a hermeneutic method. </span>
            <span id="dtb144">I was unable, of course, to interview Valentin Haüy in person; he has been dead for nearly 200 years. </span>
            <span id="dtb145">Initially, I had in mind the idea of adopting an idiographic approach to my investigation but found this difficult to apply to an historical personage such as Haüy. </span>
            <span id="dtb146">However, it was, above all, the lack of first-hand sources which most discouraged me.</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span id="dtb147">In historical research, one must have access to the remains or traces of "reality in the past tense," as Sjöstrand (1972) put it. </span>
            <span id="dtb148">The researcher pieces together, in a manner of speaking, a mosaic from the fragments he manages to find. </span>
            <span id="d910e810">
                <span id="dtb149">These remains and traces may be many and varied; in the case of Haüy, they are mainly written sources </span>
                <a id="dtb150" epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="C00000-12-footnotes.xhtml#fn_1">1</a>
                <span id="dtb151">.</span>
            </span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span id="dtb152">One of the purposes of this paper is to create a portrait in writing of Valentin Haüy. </span>
            <span id="dtb153">In other words, a biography. </span>
            <span id="d910e831">
                <span id="dtb154">When writing a biography, one should make use of material which directly or indirectly, in part or completely provides information about the life of one or several
                    people </span>
                <a id="dtb155" epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="C00000-12-footnotes.xhtml#fn_2">2</a>
                <span id="dtb156">. </span>
            </span>
            <span id="dtb157">This may or may not be written material. </span>
            <span id="dtb158">Written material produced by the investigated person himself or herself is, according to Engström, "first-person documentation," while material about the person
                investigated is "third-person documentation". </span>
            <span id="d910e850">
                <span id="dtb159">The lack of first-hand sources naturally means that the validity of this type of documentation is questionable </span>
                <a id="dtb160" epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="C00000-12-footnotes.xhtml#fn_3">3</a>
                <span id="dtb161">. </span>
            </span>
            <span id="dtb162">However, some of the documentation I have used does in fact quote from first-hand sources or "first-person documents". </span>
            <span id="dtb163">To judge from the literature available on the subject, I am one of the very few (if not the only) researchers who have used Skrébitsky as a source.</span>
        </p>
        <div id="page_6" class="page-normal" epub:type="pagebreak" title="6"></div>
        <p>
            <span id="dtb164">I did have access to a single first-hand source - the information I use to describe Haüy's pedagogical methods was, in part, gleaned from his own Essai sur l'Education
                des Aveugles.</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span id="dtb165">I have hunted for sources in museums and archives where most of the material available was in printed form. </span>
            <span id="dtb166">The few hand-written documents in existence are in the possession of the Association Valentin Haüy in Paris.</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span id="dtb167">Most of the documents I have used for this paper are in the library at the Danish Museum of the Blind, which is the only Nordic library that possesses a copy of Valentin
                Haüy's Essai de l'Education des Jeunes Aveugles, together with the Institution des Jeunes Aveugles' annual reports. </span>
            <span id="dtb168">One of these reports merits special attention since it contains a relatively early biographical article on Valentin Haüy written by the director of the institute, Dr P-A
                Dufau. </span>
            <span id="dtb169">The report is dated 1852, when the institute transferred to its present location in the Boulevard des Invalides. </span>
            <span id="dtb170">The article in question was written in 1844 and was published separately. </span>
            <span id="dtb171">Dufau's main source is a letter written by Valentin Haüy to his son.</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span id="dtb172">Paul Henri, head of the Association Valentin Haüy in the 1950s, in his biography of Louis Braille (The Life and Work of Louis Braille 1809-1852) dedicated an ample
                section to Valentin Haüy and his pioneering work in the field of education for the blind. </span>
            <span id="dtb173">His biography first appeared in France in the 1950s in a Braille version and was later, on the decision of the World Blind Union, translated into English and published by
                the South African National Council for the Blind in 1987. </span>
            <span id="dtb174">According to Didier-Weygand (2000), Henri also published a separate biography of Valentin Haüy (Paris, 1984), but unfortunately this information reached me only when the
                present paper was to all intents and purposes completed.</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span id="dtb175">Existing literature tends to ignore Valentin Haüy's stay in St Petersburg. so I have paid particular attention to that period in his life. </span>
            <span id="dtb176">A valuable source was the Russian ophtalmologist Alexander Skrébitsky's little publication, Valentin Haüy à St. </span>
            <span id="dtb177">Petersbourg (1884). </span>
            <span id="dtb178">Skrébitsky can be said to have rediscovered Haüy in Russia during his own attempts to improve conditions for the blind. </span>
            <span id="dtb179">Haüy's institute for the blind in St Petersburg had by then been closed and forgotten for many years, but Skrébitsky found material in its archives on which he based his
                book. </span>
            <span id="dtb180">There was, for example, a box full of documents dating from the period 1807-1809, but only a few documents from the latter part of Haüy's stay in Russia. </span>
            <span id="d910e939">
                <span id="dtb181">Skrébitsky managed to smuggle the box out of Russia and donated it to the Valentin Haüy Museum in Paris where it is still kept </span>
                <a id="dtb182" epub:type="noteref" class="noteref" href="C00000-12-footnotes.xhtml#fn_4">4</a>
                <span id="dtb183">. </span>
            </span>
            <span id="dtb184">I have been able to ascertain that this information is correct, but have not had the opportunity to consult these documents personally. </span>
            <span id="dtb185">I trust that Skrébitsky's quotations from them are accurate.</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span id="dtb186">The French historian Zina Weygand published a booklet entitled Les Temps des Fondateurs 1784-1844 for the second Congress on the history of the blind in Paris in 1998. </span>
            <span id="dtb187">Her booklet is interesting as she had access to the archives of the Institution des Jeunes Aveugles (INJA) created by Valentin Haüy, the Bibliothèque National de France,
                the Bibliothèque Association Valentin Haüy, as well as those of the Archive du C.N.H.O. des Quinze-Vingt. </span>
            <span id="dtb188">Her booklet is only a foretaste of her doctoral thesis, La Cécité et les Aveugles dans la Société Française: Représentations et Institution du Moyen Âge aux Premières
                Années du XIX Siècle, published in March 2000. </span>
            <span id="dtb189">Weygand married shortly after the Paris Congress and now uses a double surname, Didier-Weygand. </span>
            <span id="dtb190">Her sources include documents from archives, press cuttings and documents and letters written by Haüy himself. </span>
            <span id="dtb191">She is the only researcher to have made use of the minutes kept by the various revolutionary committees in Paris during the 1790s. </span>
            <span id="dtb192">She does not, however, write about Haüy's years in Russia.</span>
        </p>
        <div id="page_7" class="page-normal" epub:type="pagebreak" title="7"></div>
        <p>
            <span id="dtb193">To illustrate Haüy's influence on the development of education for the blind in other countries, I have chosen D.G. </span>
            <span id="dtb194">Pritchard's Education and the Handicapped 1760-1960 (1963) as my main source since it is considered a standard work. </span>
            <span id="dtb195">My sources on the work of pioneers in the education of the blind in Sweden are O.E. </span>
            <span id="dtb196">Borg's Minnen från den svenska blindundervisningens <span id="d910e1000" class="num-word">70-års</span> jubileum den 21 maj 1883, Kjell-åke Johanssons research report Om
                blindundervisningen i Sverige från 1809 (1974) and Staffan Förhammar's doctoral thesis Från tärande till närande (1991).</span>
        </p>
        <p>
            <span id="dtb197">I have also consulted press articles, amongst them Marlene Jantsch's article on Maria Theresia von Paradis, in the Wiener Medizinische Wochenschrift 47/1955.</span>
        </p>
    </body>
</html>
